In this video we're going to look at some different diagrams to understand how to calculate the different
dimensions so we're going to pass into the rectangle function so the first thing I want to do is go
back up to the top of the file all the way at the top.
I just want to remind you very quickly that we've got a couple of different constant variables declared
right here.
We've got cells which is the number of cells in either the horizontal or vertical direction.
And we've got a width and height and very critically.
Right now we are saying that the height and width are always going to be identical to each other.
Eventually we're going to allow these two values to vary to get a rectangular maze.
But right now they are always going to be perfectly the same.
So if we think about these the combination of these two dimensions together we can start to imagine
that at the end of the day every cell is going to be 200 units wide because 600 divided by three is
200.
So I'm going to define a little variable underneath here called unit length unit length is essentially
saying that every cell that I create is going to be this many units tall and this many units wide.
So to calculate the unit with or seeing the unit length we would do a with divide by cells.
And of course we could do height instead.
It really doesn't matter right now because again height width are always going to be identical.
So again at unit length is going to be this length of one side of one of our cells.
So just keep that variable in mind for half a second.
We're going to need to use that variable in order to figure out how to draw our individual wells.
So I'm going to go over to a quick diagram and let's draw some stuff out here.
Right now we are iterating over our horizontals array.
We know that that is going to be a 2D array it's going to have the two different rows
to represent that row and that row right there.
Each of those different wall segments I'm going to throw some imaginary values in here.
So I'm going to say maybe we've got TRUE FALSE TRUE FALSE TRUE FALSE so now if I wanted to reflect what
actual wells we need to draw I'm going to erase a couple elements here so we would have no wall right
there we would have no wall right there then we would have no wall right there now using that information
we need to somehow figure out how we can draw this rectangle this rectangle and this rectangle we're
going to first focus on how to draw the one at the top.
This one right here.
So we need to figure out how to go from our origin point which remember is on the top left corner that
is our 0 0 we need to first figure out how far over we need to go to get the center points of that rectangle
and then we also need to figure out how far down we need to go to get the center point as well in the
vertical direction.
So in other words we need to figure out what that is right there.
So when we think about the Y dimension.
So this off here to the left hand side we're essentially saying that we want to go down the height of
one cell.
So that is why we just created that unit length variable to get the central point right there.
We're going to first go down units length so in our case that is going to be the whatever it was was
it two hundred pixels.
So we've be going down 200 units not be the center point right there on the vertical direction then
the x direction to that center point.
So this horizontal direction would be one and a half cells over.
So that would be unit length
times one point five.
That's how we're going to figure out how we get to the center point of that segment right there but
just doing like unit length times one point five isn't super useful because if we start to think about
how to show these other ones like that segment or that segment Well it's very clear that this is not
just a function of the unit length but it's also a function of what row these center points or these
segments are occurring on and what column as well.
So in other words as we start to think about how did the central point of that next one down it's going
to actually be unit length times two.
So how do we kind of calculate that distance right there based on the unit length and what row it is
on and what column it is on.
Well let me just show you the math.
Give you an idea of how this is all going to work out in order to get the center point of all these
horizontal segments.
We need to get the column index that we are currently working on.
So in this case for the top one that we were just discussing we do some deletion here
so for the top element.
This one again right here we are operating on column index 0 1.
So 1 in this case and we are operating on row index 0 so we need to do the column index times our unit
length
was unit length divided by two that's what is going to give us the extra direction or the X distance
like so we can try to use this equation right here to figure out the x direction for each of these different
segments.
So for example if we want to figure out the x direction distance for this one on the bottom left right
here.
That would be column index of 0.
So we would do 0 plus two hundred or so mean times 200
0 times 200 plus 200 divided by 2 which equals 100.
So that means that we would have 100 units over to get to the x direction that central point and if
we want to try to apply that formula again for this original one right here that would be our column
index which in this case is 1 times 200 plus 2 100 divided by 2.
And that gives us three hundred which is definitely correct.
And then finally for the last one down here it would be a column index of two times 200 plus 200 over
to now would give us what 500 which is correct as well because overall we've got 600.
So we essentially want to go back 100 units now would be 500 to that center point right there again
in the x direction.
Now we've got that versatile formula.
Let's try to write out that code back can we create a rectangle and we'll think about the vertical direction.
After that it's on bodies dot rectangle the x coordinate here will be at column index
times the unit length
plus the unit length divided by two.
Now we don't have any variables inside of your called column index.
So how do we figure out what kind of column we are currently iterating over and what row we're iterating
over as well.
We'll remember the second argument inside the for each functions.
The first argument is the actual value where we are iterating over the second argument is the index
of that element.
So for row right here we would also have a second argument of row index and that tells us what row we
are currently operating on.
And for the second one we have the column index that is what column we are currently iterating on.
Now we can repeat the same process for the y direction as well.
They're gonna do a little bit of you racier
a little bit more
and it's gonna draw in a couple more segments here by hand.
There we go.
Now we want to get that segment that segment and that segment and now we're talking about this y direction.
So how far down do we want to get this thing.
Let's first think about this segment right here.
So how do we get that segment based upon our ROE index column index and our unit length.
Well in this case it is going to be our ROE index.
So that is going to be like this direction or this Roe right here which is our first Roe.
So it's going to be our ROE index
times the unit length and then in this case it's going to be plus the unit length let's try to plug
in some numbers to get the y coordinate or the y direction to that center point right there so I would
do a roe index of 1 times are unit length of 200 plus our unit length of 200.
And that would be 400.
So that means to draw out the Y's coordinate of this wall right here.
It would be 400 units and if we think about this one right here that would be a roe index in this case
of 0 0 times the unit length of two hundred plus two hundred gives us 200.
That means go down 200 hundred units to get that one and then this one right here.
It's the same math as that one that we did just a moment ago.
So that would be on Roe index of 1 times 200 plus 200 gives us 400.
Again all right.
So I know this math is kind of nasty but this is pretty much what has to be done.
So hey we got to talk about it one way or another.
Now let's write out the equation where the y coordinate of this rectangle as well so I'll put a comma
in there we're going to get wrote index times unit length plus the unit length okay.
Now that the third and fourth arguments these are gonna be way easier.
So this is going to be how wide and how tall we want the rectangle to be.
So in this case we know that we want our wall to be like that long like whatever the width of one cell
is.
That's how long we want it to be.
And that is the direction in the x axis.
So that is gonna be the third argument right here.
We want that to be unit length units long.
So essentially the width of one cell and that is what unit length represents and then the fourth argument
is going to be how tall we want the wall to be.
So essentially like is it going to be a really tall like that or is it gonna be just very very thin
like almost appearing to be a line.
Well we can just throw in some test value.
I gonna use like a fixed value of 10 here.
So I got to say that my wall is going to be 10 units tall.
All right.
So finally a last argument to the rectangle creation we're going to make sure that we also mark this
thing as static so that it doesn't kind of fly all around once we start to draw it on the screen.
So say is static is true it's now that we've created that wall.
We can add it into our world and to add in that shape we will call world dot add we're gonna add to
the world object we had created earlier and I want to add this wall okay.
I know this has been some nasty math but like I said we had to go through it.
So now we've got that done.
I'll save the file.
I'm going to go back over and do a quick test and I can see one wallop here right there.
Now I can refresh this every time I'm gonna see some walls appear in different locations to represent
kind of like the randomness of the maze we are creating.
So that's definitely working correctly or at least I think it's working correctly.
We won't know for sure until we also draw in the vertical segments as well so that you can guess what's
next.
Let's take a quick pause right here.
We're going to come back to the next video we can add in some very similarly looking code to handle
the creation of all the vertical wall segments.
And once we start to add that stuff in then we will note that our maze for sure is working correctly.
Two quick pauses we'll take care of verticals in the next video.